ARTICLE 1
UNION RECOGNITION AND REPRESENTATION
1.01 Exclusive Recognition. The State of Alaska, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, recognizes
the Alaska State Employees Association, AFSCME Local 52, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the
Union, as the exclusive representative of all permanent, probationary, provisional and nonpermanent
personnel (excepting those employed in the Student, College and Graduate Intern job classes) in the
General Government Unit (GGU) for collective bargaining with respect to salaries, wages, hours, and
other terms and conditions of employment.
A. "Employee" in this Agreement shall mean a person in State service who is paid a salary or wage and
holds probationary, permanent or provisional status working in a position that has been designated by
the Alaska Labor Relations Agency (ALRA) as a General Government Unit position.
B. "Bargaining unit member" in this Agreement shall mean an employee as defined at A above or an
individual who holds a nonpermanent position in accordance with Article 9 of this Agreement who
works in a position that has been designated by the ALRA as a General Government Unit position.
1.02 New or Changed Classifications.
A. All new positions and classifications created by the Employer shall be placed in the appropriate
bargaining unit, consistent with prior Alaska Labor Relations Agency (ALRA) rulings. All disputes
concerning the appropriate bargaining unit placement of a person employed by the Employer shall be
decided by the ALRA and no such question shall be subject to the grievance procedure set forth in
Article 16 of this Agreement.
B. The Union shall be notified of all new job classifications created within ten (10) working days of such
action. The notification shall include the specifications of the job classifications.
C. No filled position shall be moved from the GGU to a different bargaining unit without written notification
to the Union concurrent with the notification to the department. If the Union does not file a written
petition with the ALRA challenging the proposed bargaining unit transfer within fifteen (15) working
days of the notification to the Union, the Employer is free to take the proposed action. The Employer
may change a vacant position to a bargaining unit outside the GGU, and the Union shall be notified
concurrently with such action.
For the purposes of this section, date of notification is the date of receipt by certified mail, or five (5)
days following the date of postmark, whichever is earlier.
1.03 Exclusive Representation. The Employer will not negotiate or handle grievances with any
individual or employee organization other than the Union with respect to terms and conditions of
employment of bargaining unit members in the GGU. When individuals or organizations other than the
Union request negotiations or seek to represent bargaining unit members in grievances or to otherwise
represent bargaining unit members in employer/employee matters, the Employer shall advise them that